Here are some scenario-based interview questions and answers tailored for a Cloud DevOps Engineer role, covering Azure, AWS, Kubernetes, security, CI/CD, hybrid cloud, and automation.


---

1. CI/CD Pipeline Failure in Production

Scenario:

Your team deployed a new application version using Jenkins in an AWS-based Kubernetes (EKS) cluster. After deployment, the application started failing due to a misconfiguration in a Kubernetes ConfigMap. How do you troubleshoot and fix the issue?

Answer:

1. Verify Deployment Logs:

Check Jenkins logs for any build or deployment errors.

Run: kubectl get pods -n my-app -o wide to check pod statuses.



2. Investigate Kubernetes Events:

kubectl describe pod <pod-name> -n my-app

Look for environment variable misconfigurations.



3. Check ConfigMap Configuration:

kubectl get configmap my-app-config -o yaml -n my-app

Compare with the expected values.



4. Rollback to Previous Version:

Use Helm (if applicable): helm rollback my-app 1

If deployed via kubectl, redeploy the previous YAML.



5. Fix CI/CD Pipeline:

Update Jenkins pipeline to validate ConfigMap before deployment.

Introduce automated testing for ConfigMap changes.





---

2. Hybrid Cloud Networking Issue

Scenario:

Your company uses a hybrid cloud setup with AWS and Azure. There is a connectivity issue between an EC2 instance in AWS and an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) pod. How do you debug and fix this?

Answer:

1. Check Network Connectivity:

From EC2: ping <AKS_pod_IP>

From AKS: curl http://<EC2_IP>:port



2. Validate Security Groups & Firewalls:

AWS: aws ec2 describe-security-groups

Azure: az network nsg list



3. Check VPC Peering / VPN / ExpressRoute:

If using a VPN, check tunnel status (show vpn-sessiondb l2l).

Ensure proper routing between AWS and Azure.



4. Fix DNS Resolution:

Ensure AWS Route 53 and Azure DNS are correctly configured.



5. Use a Load Balancer if Needed:

Deploy an AWS ALB or Azure Load Balancer for better cross-cloud communication.





---

3. Kubernetes Security Breach

Scenario:

A security audit found that your Kubernetes cluster is vulnerable to unauthorized access due to misconfigured Role-Based Access Control (RBAC). How do you secure it?

Answer:

1. Audit RBAC Permissions:

kubectl get roles,rolebindings -A

Look for excessive privileges (kubectl auth can-i --list).



2. Remove Unnecessary Access:

Remove cluster-admin permissions from unauthorized users.

Apply Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP).



3. Enable Role-Based Policies:

Create a proper RBAC policy using least privilege:

kind: Role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  namespace: my-app
  name: read-only-role
rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    resources: ["pods"]
    verbs: ["get", "list"]



4. Enable Pod Security Policies (PSP) / OPA Gatekeeper:

Restrict privileged containers.

Enforce security constraints via Open Policy Agent (OPA).



5. Monitor Access Logs:

Use AWS GuardDuty, Azure Security Center, or Falco for real-time security monitoring.





---

4. Infrastructure as Code (Terraform) Issue

Scenario:

Your team deployed an AWS infrastructure using Terraform, but someone made manual changes to an EC2 instance security group. Terraform now shows a drift. How do you detect and fix this?

Answer:

1. Check Terraform State & Plan:

Run: terraform plan -out=tfplan

Identify drift in security groups.



2. Detect Manual Changes:

Use terraform state list and terraform show.



3. Reconcile Drift:

Option 1: Override Terraform State

terraform import aws_security_group.example sg-12345678

Option 2: Apply Terraform Plan to Reset

terraform apply tfplan



4. Prevent Future Manual Changes:

Enforce AWS Service Control Policies (SCPs).

Use GitOps (e.g., ArgoCD, FluxCD) to control infrastructure deployments.





---

5. AWS Auto Scaling Issue

Scenario:

Your application is deployed on an AWS Auto Scaling Group (ASG), but instances are not scaling up despite high CPU usage. How do you troubleshoot?

Answer:

1. Check Scaling Policies:

aws autoscaling describe-policies --auto-scaling-group-name my-asg



2. Validate CloudWatch Alarms:

aws cloudwatch describe-alarms --alarm-names "HighCPUAlarm"



3. Check ASG Limits & Instance Quotas:

aws service-quotas list-service-quotas --service-code ec2



4. Ensure Launch Template is Configured Properly:

aws ec2 describe-launch-template-versions



5. Manually Trigger Scaling & Fix Issues:

Increase ASG instance count manually:

aws autoscaling set-desired-capacity --auto-scaling-group-name my-asg --desired-capacity 5





---

6. CI/CD Secrets Management

Scenario:

Your CI/CD pipeline (Jenkins/Harness) is storing sensitive AWS credentials in plain text. How do you securely manage secrets?

Answer:

1. Move Secrets to AWS Secrets Manager / Azure Key Vault.

Example: Retrieve secret in Jenkins pipeline:

withCredentials([string(credentialsId: 'aws-secret', variable: 'AWS_SECRET')]) {
    sh 'aws configure set aws_secret_access_key $AWS_SECRET'
}



2. Use Kubernetes Secrets for Sensitive Data:

kubectl create secret generic db-secret --from-literal=password=supersecret



3. Restrict IAM Permissions:

Apply IAM roles with least privilege:

{
  "Effect": "Deny",
  "Action": ["secretsmanager:GetSecretValue"],
  "Resource": "*"
}



4. Use Vault for Secrets Management (HashiCorp Vault).

Dynamic secrets instead of static credentials.





---

These scenarios cover real-world challenges that Cloud DevOps Engineers face, focusing on troubleshooting, security, automation, and hybrid cloud best practices.

Would you like more role-specific or domain-specific questions (e.g., Azure-specific or Kubernetes security-focused)?

