k8s 


Here are some DevOps Engineer scenario-based interview questions tailored for an SRE (Site Reliability Engineer) role, along with real-time examples and suggested answers.


---

1. Incident Management & Troubleshooting

Question:

Your production system is experiencing high latency, and users are reporting slow response times. How would you approach troubleshooting?

Answer:

Example Scenario: Your microservices-based e-commerce platform is facing a sudden increase in API response time.

Steps to Troubleshoot:

1. Assess the impact: Check monitoring dashboards (Grafana, Datadog) to confirm if this is an isolated or widespread issue.


2. Check service health: Use Prometheus metrics or ELK logs to analyze CPU, memory, and network usage.


3. Analyze traffic spikes: Use AWS CloudWatch/Kibana to check if a sudden surge in requests is causing the latency.


4. Identify bottlenecks: Use kubectl top pod (for Kubernetes) or htop (for servers) to find overloaded resources.


5. Check database performance: Run slow query logs (SHOW FULL PROCESSLIST in MySQL) or connection pool metrics.


6. Apply fixes: Scale up pods in Kubernetes (kubectl scale deployment) or add caching (Redis) if needed.


7. Post-mortem: Document the issue, update runbooks, and automate alerts to prevent future occurrences.




---

2. CI/CD Pipeline Failure

Question:

Your deployment pipeline failed while pushing a new release to production. How would you debug and resolve this?

Answer:

Example Scenario: Your Jenkins pipeline fails at the deployment stage, preventing a new feature from going live.

Steps to Debug & Fix:

1. Check the error logs: Look at Jenkins logs (/var/log/jenkins/jenkins.log) or GitHub Actions failure messages.


2. Verify code changes: Ensure recent commits don’t introduce syntax errors (git log -p).


3. Test locally: Run docker build or terraform plan to reproduce the issue.


4. Check secrets/configs: Missing environment variables (AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID) might cause failures.


5. Rollback if necessary: Use kubectl rollout undo deployment to revert to a stable version.


6. Fix & re-trigger: Apply the fix, trigger the pipeline (jenkins restart, github actions rerun), and monitor deployment.




---

3. High CPU Usage in a Kubernetes Cluster

Question:

Your Kubernetes pods are consuming excessive CPU, affecting application performance. How do you handle this?

Answer:

Example Scenario: An application running on AWS EKS is experiencing throttling due to high CPU usage.

Troubleshooting Steps:

1. Identify high CPU-consuming pods:

kubectl top pod --sort-by=cpu


2. Check application logs for inefficient code execution (kubectl logs <pod-name>).


3. Analyze resource requests and limits in pod definitions (kubectl describe pod).


4. Scale the deployment if necessary:

kubectl scale deployment my-app --replicas=4


5. Optimize application performance (reduce infinite loops, optimize DB queries).


6. Use Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) to auto-scale based on CPU:

kubectl autoscale deployment my-app --cpu-percent=70 --min=2 --max=10




---

4. Database Connection Failures in Production

Question:

Your application is intermittently failing to connect to the database. How would you diagnose and fix it?

Answer:

Example Scenario: A microservice using PostgreSQL (hosted on AWS RDS) occasionally throws connection timeout errors.

Steps to Troubleshoot:

1. Check database availability:

nc -zv <db-host> <port>  # Netcat test


2. Monitor database connections:

SELECT * FROM pg_stat_activity;


3. Increase connection pool size in the application (e.g., max_connections in PostgreSQL).


4. Use a database proxy (PgBouncer) to optimize connection handling.


5. Check network latency using ping or AWS VPC Flow Logs.


6. Fix & restart services: Restart the affected pod (kubectl rollout restart deployment).




---

5. Handling a Security Breach

Question:

A security vulnerability is found in your infrastructure due to an exposed AWS S3 bucket. What actions would you take?

Answer:

Example Scenario: A public AWS S3 bucket was accidentally exposed, leading to potential data leaks.

Immediate Actions:

1. Identify the exposure: Use AWS GuardDuty or aws s3 ls s3://<bucket-name>/ --recursive.


2. Restrict access immediately:

aws s3api put-bucket-acl --bucket my-bucket --acl private


3. Rotate credentials: Update IAM keys and notify affected teams.


4. Scan logs for unauthorized access (AWS CloudTrail logs).


5. Implement IAM least privilege policy:

{
  "Effect": "Deny",
  "Principal": "*",
  "Action": "s3:*",
  "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-bucket/*"
}


6. Conduct a security review and enforce encryption policies.




---

6. Terraform Deployment Failed

Question:

Your Terraform apply command fails while provisioning infrastructure. How do you resolve it?

Answer:

Example Scenario: Running terraform apply results in an AWS resource creation failure.

Troubleshooting Steps:

1. Check error logs: Look for specific error messages in Terraform output.


2. Validate Terraform syntax:

terraform validate


3. Review state file conflicts (terraform state list).


4. Manually destroy faulty resources if needed:

terraform destroy -target aws_instance.example


5. Retry Terraform apply with debug logs:

TF_LOG=DEBUG terraform apply


6. Ensure correct IAM permissions for Terraform execution role.




---

7. Zero-Downtime Deployment Strategy

Question:

How would you ensure zero downtime during a Kubernetes application deployment?

Answer:

Example Scenario: Deploying a new version of a web application without disrupting users.

Best Practices for Zero Downtime:

1. Use Rolling Updates:

strategy:
  type: RollingUpdate
  rollingUpdate:
    maxUnavailable: 1
    maxSurge: 1


2. Use Blue-Green Deployment (deploy new version alongside old and switch traffic).


3. Canary Deployment: Route 10% traffic to new version, gradually increase.


4. Monitor deployment health using Prometheus or ELK.


5. Feature Flags: Toggle new features without redeploying.




---

Final Tips for an SRE Interview

Be prepared to demonstrate troubleshooting skills.

Use real-life examples from your experience.

Show your automation mindset (IaC, CI/CD, self-healing systems).

Understand observability tools (Prometheus, ELK, Datadog).


Would you like additional questions or deep dives into any of these topics?

